.TH CCOPY 1 "2024-01-15" "ctools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ccopy \- copy concepts between sessions and concept files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccopy
.RB [ \-f
.IR format ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR strategy ]
.I sources
.I destinations
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ccopy
(context copy) copies concepts between agent sessions and concept files.
Concepts are constraints, goals, preferences, observations, and references
that can be extracted from agent sessions and stored as individual JSON files.
.PP
The @ prefix denotes a session reference (agent/session_id).
Plain paths are concept JSON files.
Directories (ending with /) contain one concept file per concept.
.PP
Concepts are lines in the format:
"Use the following <type>: <text>"
where type is constraint, goal, preference, observation, or reference.
.PP
When the output target is a directory, each concept is written as a separate
JSON file. This makes concepts independently manipulable: include or exclude
by adding/removing files, merge by copying between directories, modify by
editing the JSON, and share via git or any file transfer.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format
.I format
Set output format: json, xml, or md.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-strategy
.I strategy.json
Use a custom chunking strategy for concept extraction.
A strategy defines the LLM host, model, API key, and extraction prompt.
Without this flag, ccopy uses regex pattern matching on conversation messages.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I sources
One or more sources:
.RS
.TP
.BI @ agent / session_id
Agent session to extract concepts from.
.TP
.I concept.json
JSON file containing concepts to inject.
.TP
.I concepts/
Directory of concept JSON files to inject.
.RE
.TP
.I destinations
One or more destinations:
.RS
.TP
.BI @ agent / session_id
Agent session to inject concepts into.
.TP
.I concept.json
JSON file to write extracted concepts to.
.TP
.I concepts/
Directory to write one concept file per concept.
.RE
.SH MODES
.TP
.B Extract to directory
Extract concepts from a session, one file per concept:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ccopy @opencode/ses_abc concepts/
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Extract to file
Extract concepts from a session to a single JSON file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ccopy @opencode/ses_abc concepts.json
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Inject
Inject concepts from files into a session:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ccopy constraints.json @opencode/ses_abc
ccopy concepts/ @opencode/ses_abc
ccopy a.json b.json @opencode/ses_abc
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Session-to-session
Copy concepts from one session to another:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ccopy @opencode/ses_abc @claude/ses_xyz
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B Custom strategy
Use an LLM-based extraction strategy:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ccopy --strategy my-strategy.json @opencode/ses_abc concepts/
.fi
.RE
.SH STRATEGIES
A strategy is a JSON file that defines how to extract concepts using an LLM:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "host": "http://localhost:11434",
  "model": "qwen2.5:3b",
  "api_key": null,
  "prompt": "Extract the key concepts from this conversation..."
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Different strategies can produce different concept chunkings.
Ontology is inherently contestable depending on framing, so strategies
allow users to define their own extraction approach.
.SH CONCEPT FORMAT
Concepts are JSON objects with these fields:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "type": "constraint",
  "description": "programming language",
  "short": "Use Python 3.11+",
  "medium": "Use Python 3.11 or later with type hints",
  "long": "Use Python 3.11 or later with full type hints..."
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
The tool extracts concepts from messages matching the pattern:
"Use the following <type>: <text>"
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract concepts to a directory (one file per concept):
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ccopy @opencode/ses_abc123 concepts/
Extracted 5 concepts to concepts/ (5 files)
$ ls concepts/
constraint_0aa712d89fbb067a.json
preference_a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8.json
observation_x9y8z7w6v5u4t3s2.json
goal_m1n2o3p4q5r6s7t8u9.json
reference_v0w1x2y3z4a5b6c7d8.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Extract concepts to a single file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ccopy @opencode/ses_abc123 concepts.json
Extracted 3 concepts to concepts.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Inject concepts into a session:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ccopy concepts/ @opencode/ses_abc123
Injected 5 concepts into opencode/ses_abc123
.fi
.RE
.PP
Copy concepts between sessions:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ccopy @opencode/ses_abc123 @claude/ses_xyz789
Copied 5 concepts to claude/ses_xyz789
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a custom extraction strategy:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ccopy --strategy my-strategy.json @opencode/ses_abc123 concepts/
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/opencode/opencode.db
OpenCode SQLite database (reads/writes system messages).
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects/**/*.jsonl
Claude Code session files (reads/writes system messages).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Unknown agent, session not found, or invalid arguments.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdir (1),
.BR cgrep (1),
.BR cdu (1)
.SH AUTHORS
ctools project.
