.TH CDIR 1 "2024-01-15" "ctools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cdir \- list agents and sessions from LLM context windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdir
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-R ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR format ]
.RI [ path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cdir
(context directory) lists agents and their conversation sessions,
similar to DOS mtools but for LLM context windows.
.PP
The tool reads session metadata from agent storage directories
and presents them in a human-readable or machine-parseable format.
It can also export individual sessions as conversation JSON.
.PP
Without arguments, cdir lists all known agents and their storage paths.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-time
Sort sessions by modification time (default).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-size
Sort sessions by size.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reverse
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-recursive
Show agent name in session list. When used without a path,
recurse all agents and show all sessions with agent prefix.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format
.I format
Set output format. Available formats:
.RS
.TP
.B default
Human-readable aligned columns.
.TP
.B json
JSON array of session objects.
.TP
.B xml
XML document with session elements.
.TP
.B md
Markdown table.
.RE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I path
Agent name or agent/session_id path.
Without argument, lists all known agents.
With agent name (e.g., \fBopencode/\fR), lists sessions.
With agent/session_id (e.g., \fBopencode/ses_abc123\fR), exports session.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all known agents:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdir
Found:
  Claude Code  Claude Code CLI             ~/.claude                [jsonl]
  Opencode     Opencode CLI                ~/.local/share/opencode  account.json, auth.json, opencode.db

Not Found:
  Claude       Claude Desktop (Anthropic)  ~/.config/Claude         [json]
  Codex        OpenAI Codex CLI            ~/.codex                 [jsonl]
.fi
.RE
.PP
Found agents show their actual files. Not Found agents show the expected path.
.PP
List sessions for opencode:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdir opencode/
  ses_abc123  Python Help     2024-01-15 10:30  2.4 KB   12
  ses_def456  Code Review     2024-01-16 09:00  1.2 KB    8

  2 session(s)
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all sessions across all agents:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdir -R
  opencode/ses_abc123   Python Help   2024-01-15 10:30   2.4 KB   12
  claude-code/ses_xyz   Bug Fix       2024-01-15 11:00   3.1 KB   20

  2 session(s)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Export a session as JSON:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdir opencode/ses_abc123
[
  {"role": "user", "content": "Hello"},
  {"role": "assistant", "content": "Hi there!"}
]
.fi
.RE
.PP
Export a session as Markdown:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdir --format md opencode/ses_abc123
# Session — opencode/ses_abc123

## You

Hello

## Assistant

Hi there!
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/opencode/opencode.db
OpenCode SQLite database.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects/**/*.jsonl
Claude Code session files.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application Support/Claude-3p/
Claude Desktop session directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ccopy (1),
.BR cgrep (1),
.BR cdu (1)
.SH AUTHORS
ctools project.
