.TH CDU 1 "2024-01-15" "ctools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cdu \- context disk usage for LLM conversations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdu
.RB [ \-j ]
.RI [ path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cdu
(context disk usage) shows token length of conversations,
similar to DOS mdu but for LLM context windows.
Uses tiktoken for accurate counts, falls back to ~4 chars/token estimation.
.PP
With no arguments, shows total usage across all agents.
With an agent name, shows sessions sorted by token usage.
With agent/session_id, shows token breakdown for that session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json
Output in JSON format instead of table.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I path
Agent or agent/session_id path.
Without argument, shows all agents.
With agent name (e.g., \fBopencode/\fR), lists sessions.
With agent/session_id (e.g., \fBopencode/ses_abc123\fR), shows breakdown.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show all agents with total token usage:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdu
╭─────────────┬──────────┬─────────╮
│ Agent       │ Sessions │ Tokens  │
├─────────────┼──────────┼─────────┤
│ opencode    │       42 │ 128.5k  │
│ claude-code │       15 │  45.2k  │
├─────────────┼──────────┼─────────┤
│ TOTAL       │          │ 173.7k  │
╰─────────────┴──────────┴─────────╯
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show sessions for opencode sorted by token usage:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdu opencode/
╭──────────────────────┬───────────────────────┬─────────┬──────────╮
│ Session              │ Name                  │ Tokens  │ Messages │
├──────────────────────┼───────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┤
│ ses_abc123           │ Python Help           │  12.5k  │       24 │
│ ses_def456           │ Code Review           │   8.2k  │       18 │
├──────────────────────┼───────────────────────┼─────────┼──────────┤
│ TOTAL                │                       │  20.7k  │ 2 sessions│
╰──────────────────────┴───────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────╯
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show token breakdown for a specific session:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdu opencode/ses_abc123
╭─────────┬─────────╮
│ Metric  │ Tokens  │
├─────────┼─────────┤
│ Total   │  12.5k  │
│ Input   │   8.3k  │
│ Output  │   4.2k  │
├─────────┼─────────┤
│ Source  │ (actual)│
╰─────────┴─────────╯
.fi
.RE
.PP
Output as JSON:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cdu --json opencode/
[
  {
    "id": "ses_abc123",
    "name": "Python Help",
    "tokens": 12500,
    "messages": 24
  }
]
.fi
.RE
.SH TOKEN COUNTING
.TP
.B opencode
Actual token counts from SQLite database (tokens_input + tokens_output).
.TP
.B Other agents
Estimated using tiktoken (cl100k_base encoding), or fallback to ~4 chars/token.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Unknown agent or session not found.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdir (1),
.BR cgrep (1),
.BR ccopy (1)
.SH AUTHORS
ctools project.
