.TH CGREP 1 "2024-01-15" "Gab n' Go" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cgrep \- search through LLM context window sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cgrep
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-L ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-B
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-A
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-C
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR format ]
.I pattern
.IR paths ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cgrep
(context grep) searches through conversation content stored in
LLM agent session files using PCRE regular expressions.
.PP
The tool reads actual session data from each agent's storage
format and applies pattern matching to find matches within
conversation messages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-files\-with\-matches
List only session IDs that contain matches, not the matches themselves.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-files\-without\-match
List only session IDs that do NOT contain matches.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-count
Print only a count of matching lines per session.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-invert\-match
Select non-matching lines.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-case
Ignore case distinctions in patterns and input.
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-before
.I N
Print
.I N
lines of context before each match.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-after
.I N
Print
.I N
lines of context after each match.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-context
.I N
Print
.I N
lines of context before and after each match.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format
.I format
Set output format. Available formats:
.RS
.TP
.B default
Human-readable with line numbers.
.TP
.B json
JSON array of match objects.
.TP
.B xml
XML document with session and match elements.
.TP
.B md
Markdown with match highlights.
.RE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I pattern
PCRE regular expression pattern to search for.
.TP
.I paths
One or more agent/session paths in the format:
.RS
.TP
.BI agent /
Search all sessions for agent.
.TP
.BI agent/session_id
Search a specific session.
.RE
.PP
Multiple paths can be specified separated by spaces.
.SH EXAMPLES
Search for "error" in all opencode sessions:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep "error" "opencode/*"
3: user: I'm getting an error in my code
7: assistant: The error is caused by...
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search case-insensitively and show context:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep -i -C 2 "error" "opencode/*"
  user: I'm getting an error in my code
  assistant: Let me help you debug this
3: user: I'm getting an ERROR in my code
  assistant: I see the issue now
  assistant: You need to fix the...
.fi
.RE
.PP
List sessions containing "TODO":
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep -l "TODO" "opencode/*" "claude-code/*"
opencode/ses_abc123
claude-code/ses_xyz789
.fi
.RE
.PP
Count matches per session:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep -c "import" "opencode/*"
opencode/ses_abc123:5
opencode/ses_def456:2
.fi
.RE
.PP
Invert match (find lines WITHOUT "test"):
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep -v "test" "opencode/ses_abc123"
1: user: Hello world
4: assistant: Here is some code
.fi
.RE
.PP
Output as JSON:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep --format json "error" "opencode/*"
[
  {
    "session": "opencode/ses_abc123",
    "line_num": 3,
    "line": "user: I'm getting an error"
  }
]
.fi
.RE
.PP
Output as XML:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cgrep --format xml "error" "opencode/*"
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<matches>
  <session id="ses_abc123" agent="opencode">
    <match line="3">
      <message>user: I'm getting an error</message>
    </match>
  </session>
</matches>
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
One or more matches found.
.TP
.B 1
No matches found or invalid pattern.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cdir (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Gab n' Go project.
